PS6 comments for some of the questions

Part a)

Descriptions are given of the Noise Model, the smoothing process and the windowing of
data in the script "PS6_full.py" itself through comments throughout the code.

Part b)

The events are found by using the match filters. For detections from L1 and H1 
were recorded for each event.

Part c)

The noise, analytical SNR and numerical SNR are all described through comments
throughout the code in "PS6_full.py".

Part d)

The numerical and analytical SNR's at both the L1 and H1 detectors for event GW150914 are very close to each other (see "PS6_Outputs.txt"). The two SNR's at the H1 detector in particular are extremely close to each other (SNR = 22.83 and 24.22). 
But the SNR values for the rest of the GW events are very different from each other. The general trend is that the analytical SNR is higher than the numerical SNR. In the case of events that are not GW150914, the analytical SNR's are between two and three times larger than the numerical SNR. The numerical SNR is the value obtained out of the Match Filter that is created using a Noise model. The analytical SNR on the other hand was found directly from the inverse FFT of the data template with itself. The analytical SNR is the value obtained for data in instances where the events are as they should be in theory, without being convolved with a noise model. In the cases where the data templates gets convolved with the noise model, it is possible that some of the features/information of the GW events get removed. This is probably why the analytical SNR in general is much higher than the numerical SNR. 



Part e)

By finding the total area of the match filter, it was found that around a frequency of 1420 Hz or so, the weights start getting distributed equally on either side of that frequency value. 



Part f)

By using the GW event spike which can be seen in the Matched Filter, it is possible to record the horizontal shift in the matched filter. The better we smooth and clean the
Data, the easier it is to pinpoint the position of the event spike. 
Each signal was recorded for 32 seconds. So we know the duration of each spike.
We can zoom on on the spike and since we know the duration of the event, we can accurately
pinpoint the time of arrival. 
NOTE: SEE FIGURE "PS6_Zoomed_Event_Spike.png" for zoomed in event spike. 

In the LOSC event tutorial, the distance to the GW events were calculated using the data received at the two detectors. The distance was found to be about 74 Mpc at H1 and 64 Mpc at L1. The inspired horizons were found to be 169 Mpc at H1 and 147 Mpc at L1. This gives a distance discrepancy of about (10/74) * 100 = 13.5% and 13% in both instances. I suppose the positional uncertainty would likely be between 10 and 20 percent given the distance between the detectors. 